.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" See LICENSE
.\"
.TH NPEMWIND 1 "23 DECEMBER, 2007"
.SH NAME
npemwind \- Noaaport Client and Emwin Server
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnpemwind\fR [-C] [-D [-D]] [-V [-V [-V]]] [-c \fIconfigfile\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fInpemwind\fR is a daemon which is designed to connect to a
Noaaport Broadcast System Processor (nbsp), either in the same
or in a remote machine, and then redistribute
the files that it receives to emwin (byte blaster) clients.
Altenatively, \fInpemwind\fR can also connect to a standard
byte blaster server, or a list of them, or directly to an emwin
serial device.

\fInpemwind\fR can use the default configuration file 
\fI/usr/local/etc/npemwin/npemwind.conf\fR if that file exists,
and an additional configuration file passed via the \fB[-c]\fR option.
Many configuration options can be specified in those configuration files.
The default file, if it exists, is read first.
If the \fB[-c]\fR switch
is used, the named file is also used as a configuration file, but
it is read, and the settings are applied, after the default file,
so that latter settings override earlier ones.
A commented sample default configuration is provided which
explains all of the configurable options.

The other command-line options are for special purpose, rather than general,
use. The \fB[-C]\fR option option causes the program to print its configuration
and quit. One instance of the \fB[-D]\fR option runs the program in debug mode
and two instances disables becomming a daemon. The \fB[-V]\fR option increases
the verbosity level.

In the normal mode of operation 
the files are saved following a simple convention to
make storage and retrieval manageable. 
By design, \fInpemwind\fR itself does not do anything else with the files 
received beyond saving the product files once they are complete. However,
two simple mechanisms have been built in to extend
its capabilities in a flexible way. \fInpemind\fR
accepts network client connections and it can redistribute
the files to regular emwin clients. This is independent of whether
\fnpemwind\fR is reading from a byte blaster server, an nbsp server
ot directly from a serial device.
In addition, any number of programs (filters) can be loaded
to post-process the files as the received. For each file that
is received, each user-specified program is executed with a 
set of command line arguments that identify the product and the
location of the saved file.

Some sample filters are supplied with the distribution,
and the program has many additional capabilities that are not mentioned here.
Since these aspects are subject to revision and evolution,
this man page does not explain how to enable and configure all the
available features. Further instructions are given in the program's
web site, www.noaaport.net, and in the program's documentation
and configuration directories.

.LP
.SS FILES
/usr/local/etc/npemwin/
.br
/usr/local/share/doc/npemwin/
.LP
.SS VERSION
1.5r1 - january 2008
.SS AUTHOR 
Jose F. Nieves
.br
nieves@ltp.upr.clu.edu
.br
Copyright 2004-2008
.br
